{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Segoe UI;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22621}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\widctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs28\lang9 Threat Actor Node Distributions \par
\fs18 A \b Threat Actor (TA) \b0 is a person or entity that has the ability or intent to undertake some form of Attack (AT) against an Asset (A).\par
\b\fs22 Threat Actor Parameters\par
\b0\fs18 The Threat Actor Value (TAv) is used as the basis for the Threat Actor calculations. The\~Threat Actor Value (TAv)\b\~\b0 is calculated from four parameters:\par
\b\fs20 Access (TAa)\par
\b0\fs18 There are different types of access that a threat actor can have once they gain unauthorized entry into a system or network, for example:\par

\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\widctlpar\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 User-level access: This type of access allows the attacker to access resources and perform actions that are permitted for a regular user on the system or network. This may include reading or modifying files, accessing applications, or running commands.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Administrative access: This type of access provides the Threat Actor with full control over the system or network. It allows them to perform all actions that an administrator or superuser can do, such as creating new accounts, installing software, changing system configurations, and accessing sensitive data.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Network-level access: This type of access allows the Threat Actor to access other systems or devices on the network, which can potentially lead to a wider attack surface and more damage.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Remote access: This type of access allows the Threat Actor to control the system or network from a remote location, using tools like remote desktop software or backdoor malware.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Persistent access: This type of access enables the Threat Actor to maintain their presence on the system or network even after they have been detected or removed. They may use techniques like hiding their presence, creating backdoors, or establishing persistence mechanisms to maintain access for an extended period.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Physical access: This gives the Threat Actor physical access to a computer system or device, usually by gaining entry to a building or a restricted area where the system is located. Physical access can be particularly dangerous because it allows the attacker to bypass many of the security measures that are in place to protect the system, such as firewalls, intrusion detection systems, and authentication controls.\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs20 Capability (TAc)\par
\b0\fs18 Capability from a Threat Actor perspective refers to the skills, knowledge, resources, and tools that an Threat Actor has at their disposal to carry out an attack. Threat actors may have different levels of capability, ranging from low-skilled script kiddies who use off-the-shelf hacking tools to sophisticated state-sponsored hackers with advanced technical skills and extensive resources. Their capability may depend on various factors, such as their motivation, funding, access to technology, and level of sophistication.\par
There are several types of common Threat Actors, here are some examples:\par

\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\widctlpar\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Cybercriminals: These are individuals or groups who use illegal means to make money through cybercrime. Cybercriminals may engage in activities such as hacking, identity theft, fraud, and ransomware attacks.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Hacktivists: These are individuals or groups who use hacking to advance political or social causes. Hacktivists may deface websites, leak confidential information, or disrupt online services to draw attention to their causes.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Nation-state actors: These are government-sponsored groups that use cyberattacks to achieve political, economic, or military objectives. Nation-state actors may conduct espionage, sabotage, or cyberwarfare against other countries or organizations.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Insiders: These are individuals who have authorized access to a system or network but use that access for malicious purposes. Insiders may steal sensitive information, plant malware, or cause other types of damage to the system.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Script kiddies: These are low-skilled hackers who use off-the-shelf hacking tools to carry out attacks without much knowledge or experience. Script kiddies may engage in activities such as website defacement or DDoS attacks.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Advanced persistent threats (APTs): These are sophisticated, well-funded groups that use advanced techniques to carry out targeted attacks over an extended period. APTs may use social engineering, zero-day exploits, or custom malware to infiltrate a system and steal sensitive information.\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs20 Resources (TAr)\par
\b0\fs18 Threat Actor resources refer to the assets or capabilities that a Threat Actor  has at their disposal to carry out an attack. These resources can include various tools, techniques, and funding that the attacker can use to achieve their objectives.\par
Examples of resources that a Threat Actor may have include:\par

\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\widctlpar\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Technical expertise: Advanced technical knowledge of computer systems, networking, programming languages, and malware development can be a significant resource for a threat actor.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Exploits: Threat actors may have access to zero-day vulnerabilities, malware, and other exploits that can be used to bypass security controls and gain access to systems or networks.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Botnets: Botnets are networks of compromised computers that are controlled by a single attacker. Botnets can be used for DDoS attacks, spam campaigns, or other malicious activities.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Funding: Some threat actors, such as nation-state actors or cybercriminal organizations, may have significant funding at their disposal to acquire the resources they need to carry out sophisticated attacks.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Human resources: A threat actor may have a team of skilled hackers or other personnel who can carry out various aspects of the attack.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Social engineering tactics: Threat actors may use social engineering tactics such as phishing, pretexting, or baiting to trick users into divulging sensitive information or granting access to systems or networks.\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b Motivation \fs20 (TAm)\fs18\par
\b0 Threat Actor motivation refers to the reasons or goals that drive a Threat Actor to carry out a cyber attack. Understanding the motivations of a Threat Actor can help organizations and individuals develop effective cybersecurity strategies and defenses.\par
Motivations of a threat actor can vary widely, and some common motivations include:\par

\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\widctlpar\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Financial gain: Cybercriminals may carry out attacks to make money through activities such as stealing sensitive information, conducting fraud, or launching ransomware attacks.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Espionage: Nation-state actors or other entities may carry out cyberattacks to obtain sensitive information, trade secrets, or intellectual property from other countries or organizations.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Ideology: Hacktivists may launch attacks to advance a particular political or social cause, such as activism, free speech, or government transparency.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Sabotage: Some attackers may carry out attacks to cause disruption, damage, or harm to organizations or individuals.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Personal gain or revenge: Insiders or disgruntled employees may launch attacks to seek personal gain or revenge against their employers or colleagues.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Thrill-seeking: Some attackers may carry out attacks for the thrill or challenge of breaking into systems or networks.\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs22 Probability Distributions \par
\b0\fs18 A statistical probability distribution is a fundamental concept in probability theory and statistics that provides a mathematical representation of the probabilities associated with possible outcomes of a random event or process.\par
Probability distributions summarize the range of possible values a random variable can take, as well as the likelihood of each of these outcomes occurring. They are an essential tool for modeling and analyzing real-world phenomena.\par
The probability value ranges from 0 to 100, with the principle that a higher value relates to higher/worse impact on risk calculations. \par
Each of the above parameters can be defined with a distribution type and distribution range.\f1\fs22\par
}
 